what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose if you
don't know who I am my name is Nasir I'm
a second year medical student studying
at King's College London as you can see
from the title of today's video I'm
gonna be talking about a subject that is
a little bit difficult for me to talk
about it definitely brings up some of
the more sad memories of my life I'm
gonna spend the first half of this video
talking about my life story what it is
that happened to me in my rejections in
medical school both in 2013 and then
again in 2017 and then I'm gonna spend
the second half of the video just
talking about rejection in general how
it is that I think you can deal with it
and what you should do to move on and
better yourself and ensure that you can
get into medical school the next time
that you apply I've also been receiving
quite a few messages from you guys
recently telling me that you've been
rejected from all the medical schools
that you applied to I know how difficult
the time that is I've been through the
rejection process twice so I understand
I really do and I know that at the time
when I was rejected by medical school it
would have definitely helped me if I
could sit down and watch a video about
someone else's perspective someone
else's story and realized that I'm not
alone and then I'm not going through
this by myself so first things first
what is my story what is it that
happened to me so I first applied to
medical school back in 2013 when I was
finishing high school and I only applied
to the UK at the time I applied to
Imperial Edinburgh Kings and Cambridge I
only applied to the most prestigious
schools that I could think of because I
was an idiot and I got flat-out
rejections from Edinburgh Imperial and
Kings and that really sucked that was
really difficult at the time I just I
didn't know what to do all of my friends
were getting their acceptances for like
engineering for maths for history for
politics whatever it is and I was
sitting there with absolutely zero
interviews I hadn't even attended the
interviews yet you know when you get
rejected before the interview stage it's
like they didn't even give you a chance
and that was that was a really tough
time I did however manage to secure one
interview at Cambridge and I was really
really excited for that but I just did
not know how to prepare for it no one
had told me the importance of preparing
for the interview no one had told me how
to prepare for the interview and I was
just so so so lost and what I actually
did to prepare for my Cambridge medical
school interview was memorized my
biology textbook pretty horrible idea I
know and that's actually part of why I
started this YouTube channel in the
first place I know
I was so lost when I was going through
the whole medical school application
process and I wish that I had someone to
tell me hey this is what you should
study this is where you should focus on
and this is what you need to do but I
didn't have that and so obviously my
Cambridge interview was just shambles I
felt such a big sense of confusion all
my life up until that point had been so
structured so well planned I always knew
what I was doing and now here I was not
going to the next natural step of my
life which was to get into Medical
School so really when I say this I mean
it so wholeheartedly I know what it
feels like to have been rejected from
medical schools I know that feeling of
rejection and the feeling of trying so
hard and working so hard towards a goal
and it not ending up manifesting in a
positive result
it's a tough time it really is a tough
time I know that and it might seem like
the end of the world at the moment but
it's really not there's there's a lot of
things you can do from here so the
reason I think I didn't end up getting
into medical school the first time I
applied was because of my UK cap no one
had told me that this exam is crucial
for you to get into medical school I
think I did about a week a week and a
half of practice for the UK table before
I took it and that didn't help me in my
chances of getting into Medical School
my dad had also told me make sure you
applied to some schools in Canada and at
the time I thought that was the
stupidest idea why would I apply to
schools in Canada if I know that I'm
gonna get into medical school in the UK
and of course what I actually ended up
happening is that the decision to apply
to Canadian schools saved me in the end
but of course I didn't know that at the
time after I had gone through the period
of feeling extremely bad feeling really
sorry for myself and just you know being
down from being rejected from medical
school I knew that I know how to start
making some decisions making some plans
in order to move on from this and so I
basically had two options at this point
I was either going to take a gap year
and spend a year working on building up
my CV retaking my you count getting as
much medical experience as I can to make
sure that I am going to be the best
medical school applicant one I apply for
the next year
or I was gonna go to a Canadian school
and do an undergraduate degree and then
apply for medicine as a graduate student
now at the time I really didn't want to
slow down my momentum the idea of not
being in university while all of my
friends are in university and just
taking a full year off from studying in
a structured environment what's really
really scary for me I decided that the
best thing for me to do was to go to a
Canadian
schoolfriend undergraduate degree and in
the end this turned out to be the
absolute best decision that i made i
couldn't see it at the time and at the
time I was so upset and I was so sad
that I wasn't in medical school I was
devastated that I had to do this
undergraduate degree before I even got
to apply again and looking back it was
actually one of the best things that
ever happened to me so I ended up doing
my degree in two majors biotechnology
and microbiology and then the minor was
immunology in those four years of my
undergraduate degree I matured so so so
much you know as an eighteen year old I
knew that I wanted to be a doctor I knew
that I wanted to go to medical school
but truth be told I actually had no idea
what being a doctor entailed I didn't
actually know what it's like to be on
the wards for 12-hour shifts I didn't
know what it's like to talk to and
interact with patients and have to deal
with really difficult subjects I just
wasn't I just didn't know what that was
like and that's fair enough because I
hadn't been old enough to experience
those things and so over my four years
on University I ended up volunteering in
a Center for victims of torture where I
talk to patients for extended periods of
time and learned how to deal with people
who are coming from really difficult
situations who are in very different
cultural backgrounds than me I'm
actually got a lot of shadowing
experience with doctors and surgeons and
also managed to work in a couple of labs
as well doing both Hospital clinical
work and also research it was basically
just an amazing four years to help build
myself build my character mature and
really realize that medicine is in fact
what I want to do in fact I think being
a graduate student studying medicine is
a huge huge huge advantage and I think I
have a full video dedicated to that
somewhere on the channel I think it's
called something like the truth about
being a UK graduate student or something
like that
I'll leave a link to it in the
description and somewhere over here so
after four years at the University of
Toronto
I felt really just empowered to apply to
medical school again I knew for a fact
that I wanted to be a doctor and I had
so much experience under my belt that
could back up why it is that I wanted to
be a doctor and also learned how to
study I'd learned how to take notes well
I had explored a lot not only about life
and everything that was around me but
also by myself I've learned a lot about
myself I had grown as a person I had
matured and I was just ready to take on
an Tonko medical school at this time I
didn't want to take any chances I was
like you know what I'm
applied to both UK medical schools and
Canadian medical schools if one country
doesn't accept me the other one will and
lo and behold what happened I got
rejected from all of the medical schools
that I applied to in Canada that was
extremely devastating I couldn't believe
that I had been rejected all over again
and I was about to go through the same
process that I went through four years
ago but then slowly slowly the UK
Medical School started getting back to
me not this time around when I had
applied to UK medical schools I was so
much more confident in myself first
things first I had my good high school
grades with my solid IB score to apply
with I had also finished four years of
my undergraduate degree and I had those
grades to apply with and then third and
finally and probably most importantly my
UK cat score was really really good this
time and I have a lot of videos talking
about the UK account exam how it is that
I prepared for how it is that I did so
well and if you guys are interested in
that you can find the links to it
somewhere here on my channel so the
second time around in 2017 when I
applied to UK medical schools again I
ended up applying to King's Bristol
Southampton and Queen Mary's Queen
Mary's rejected me outright without an
interview and then I got interviews for
the other three I ended up rejecting
Southampton's interview because at the
time I had already been accepted to
Bristol and I also got accepted to
King's so as a mature student when I
went to do my interviews I felt like a
grown man who was there at the interview
who knew exactly what he wanted to do
who knew why he wanted to pursue
medicine and so really the second time
around when I was applying everything
was just so so so much easier and I
can't stress that enough as a mature
student the whole process is going to be
easier you are going to feel more
confident you're going to do better and
you're probably gonna have higher
chances of getting accepted so now that
I'm done telling you my entire life
story about the UK medical schools and
rejection let's move on to talking about
rejection in itself what it is that you
can do to move past rejection and how it
is that you can build yourself to make
sure that when you apply next time
you're definitely going to get in so the
first thing that you have to do is just
realise that for this year for this
cycle you're not going to get into
medical school and that is it's a very
tough fact to come to grips with it's a
very tough thing to accept but that is
the truth and that's the first step in
being able to move past the fact that
you have been rejected it's realizing
your current situation and how you're
gonna move forward from it after that
something really
important that I want to say is that
medical school is not a one-time shot
it's not a one-time opportunity where
you just sort of throw in everything you
have and if it doesn't work out that's
it it's done
students get rejected every single year
and so many of them find a way to get
back into medicine whether that's
applying the next year after gap year or
whether it's applying two years later
after a gap year and doing some work
experience or whether it's after doing a
full undergraduate degree and then
applying again and in fact if you get
rejected at the age of 18 in the UK for
medical school you are still at least
five years ahead of anyone who's getting
into medical school in either the US or
Canada in the US and Canada the average
entrance age from medical school is 24
medical school is a really long career
it's a really long path and it's gonna
take something like 12 to 14 years until
you become the top consultant or top
surgeon that you want to be so just
taking one year out to take a gap year
to get extra work experience or whatever
is nothing in the grand scheme of things
and you have so much to learn and so
much to gain from experience in that one
year that it's gonna make you so much
more of a better applicant so much more
of a better person I would honestly try
and see it as a positive thing that you
not have time to be able to work on
yourself
to work on your experiences and also
retake any exams or a-levels or whatever
it is that could help improve your
application and keep in mind me and all
of my friends who are on the graduate
course in medical school right now we
were all rejected from medical school
the first time we applied and some of my
friends applied up to four times before
they go into medical school and here
they are sitting right next to me in
class doing the exact same tests we're
on the exact same level also remember
that if you're being rejected by medical
schools right now you likely still have
your a-levels or your IB exams coming up
and you need to do really really well on
those to make sure that you have solid
high school grades when you go to apply
for medical school the next time so
don't give up now don't drop everything
yet something else that was great for me
when I was rejected from medical school
is that it forced me to sort of sit back
and examine the situation and realize is
this really what I want to do is
medicine the career path that I have
chosen for myself just because that's
always what I've wanted to do from when
I was younger or is this something that
I actually truly want to do so for
everyone who's watching who has been
rejected by medical schools this year or
last year or
is going to be rejected next year in the
future when you're watching this video
just trust me this is not the end of the
road this is by no means the final shot
for you to get into Medical School if it
is your dream and if it is your passion
it is so possible you need to work on it
and you need to work hard no one said
it's gonna be easy but it's definitely
possible to get into Medical School and
personally for me getting rejected was
honestly one of the best things that
happened to me I was able to gain four
years of life experience four years of
work experience just grow and mature as
a person and I can't explain how
valuable that is now that I'm in medical
school as an older student as a mature
student I've been through this
experience before of being at University
and I feel so much more confident in my
ability to take on medical school now
okay so I think that's it for me that's
where I'm gonna end this video this
definitely wasn't the easiest video for
me to make and I hope that in me talking
about and what I've been through in my
rejections that it helps some of you
guys also overcome what's going on with
you right now next week back to a nice
happy of the talkative video and I'll
see you guys then
peace